---

Title: Dietz-Shapley-Theory-Jars
Transcriber: Ryan Faith
Date: 1933-01-04
Newspaper: Indianapolis Times
Location: Indianapolis, Indiana
Author: Dietz, David
Cited source: 
Page URL: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015313/1933-01-04/ed-1/?sp=6

---

The moon, the earth, the sun, and the Milky Way may all be the same age, all formed during a common process of evolution. This revolutionary theory, contrary to generally accepted ideas in astronomy, was advanced in Atlantic City by Dr. Harlow Shapley, world-famous director of the Harvard observatory, in an address before the annual convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
Dr. Shapley called for a complete revision of all theories relating to the origin of the moon, the earth, the solar system, and the Milky Way. 
He said that the chief accomplishment of astronomical study during the last few years has been to reveal the inadequacy of all theories regarding the evolution of the universe and its component parts. 
The commonly accepted theory has been that our sun evolved along with the other stars of the Milky Way from the condensation of a parent gaseous nebula at some remote date, perhaps fifteen trillion years ago. 
Our earth and the other planets were thought to have been formed about two billion years ago from material pulled out of the sun by the gravitational pull of a star which passed close to the sun. 
The moon was thought to have taken shape from material thrown off by the earth before the surface of the earth had solidified. 
New Theory Suggested
Shapley said that recent studies had brought up more objections to these various theories than they were able to meet. In their place Shapley suggests a new theory.
“I propose that, we consider the possibility that the moon, planets, and sun are all of the same age and that they have arisen in a secondary swirl or eddy of the parental spiral nebula out of which the local galaxy or Milky Way may be supposed to have generated,” he told his audience.
“On this view the moon has not been born from the earth or the earth from the sun. Present members of the solar system merely are survivals of the original heterogeneous population of this particular secondary swirl.” 
In this connection, it is interesting to point out that recent studies of the theory of the expanding universe, such as those by Eddington, indicate that the universe can not be more than 10,00,000,000 years old.
The old estimate of fifteen trillion years was based on theories of the evolution of stars. Regarding these theories, Shapley told his audience, "in the opinion of many astronomers we now are practically without any theory of evolution of the stars. 
"We have a great burden of facts and reasonable explanations of superficial things about stars. Inside facts are lacking. We do not know how galaxies of stars come to exist." 
Astronomers Puzzled 
Dr. Shapley also pointed out that astronomers are faced with a still larger problem; namely, the relation of our own galaxy or Milky Way to the million or more similar galaxies or spiral nebulae in space. "Whether our own galaxy is a simple, typical system or a complex system of two, three or more galaxies, we cannot tell," Dr. Shapley said. "We are just now at the beginning of the accumulation of knowledge of galaxies as galaxies.
Within ten years we may have a clearer picture, thanks to the rapid accumulation of powerful telescopes." 
Dr. Shapley said that while there were about a million galaxies within range of present telescopes, there was no reason to suppose that it did not extend to very much greater distances, since the number of galaxies showed no falling off with in crease in distance.
He also said that it was too early to accept the theory of an expanding universe as an established fact.
He urged that future researches be directed to five important fields: "A consideration of the general time scale of the universe; a study of the place of asteroids and comets in the solar system; further exploration of the transneptunian regions, where other Pluto-like bodies may be found to throw light on the limits of the solar system; investigations of the interior structure of the earth, and investigations of changes in the orbits of planets over great intervals of time."
