---

Title: 1843-Comet-Strange-Light
Transcriber: Ryan Faith
Date: 1843-03-14
Newspaper: New York Daily Tribune
Location:New York, New York
Author: na
Cited source: National Inteligencer
Page URL: https://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030213/1843-03-13/ed-1/?sp=4

---

The Strange Light
Hydrographical Office, March 10,1843.
On Monday morning, the 6th, our attention was called to a paragraph in the newspapers stating that a comet was visible near the sun at mid-day with that naked eye. The sky was clear; but, not being able to discover anything with the unassisted eye, recourse was had to a telescope, without any better success. About sunset in the evening the examination was renewed with great diligence, but to no purpose. As the stars began to peep out, observers were multiplied. Capella, Rigil, Beta (B) in the Bull, Delta in Orion, and Alpha (A) in the Hare, came to the meridian, and their transits were marked by one observer; while another, with close attention, watched through the fading light of the western horizon for the Comet and its tail. The last faint streak of day gilded the west, beautiful and delicate fleeces of zonder cloud cloud curtained the bed of the sun, the upper sky was studded with stars, and all hoped of seeing the Comet that evening had vanished. 
Soon after we had retired, the officer of the watch announced the appearance of the Comet in the west. The phenomenon was sublime and beautiful. The needle was greatly agitated; and a strongly marked pencil of light was streaming up from the path of the sun in an oblique direction to the southward and eastward; its edges were parallel. It was about 1 deg. 30 min broad and 30 deg. long. Stars could be seen twinkling through it, and no doubt was at first entertained but that this was the tail of the Comet. The officer of the watch was directed to search the eastern sky with the telescope in the morning, from early dawn, and before, till sunrise. Nothing strange or uncommon was noted by him.
Tuesday was a beautiful day; the air was still and the sky clear. With the aid of the telescopes, a regular and systematic examination of the heavens was commenced. Every point of space within 15 deg. of the sun, in all directions, was passed and repassed over and over again, through the field of the telescopes, and minutely examined, in the hope of discovering the Comet itself. The entire day was occupied in thus exploring that portion of the heavens.  In the afternoon a black spot, in shape not unlike a liberty cap, was discovered in the sun. But the day was fast declining, and with the fading light of evening the interest was too intense to turn away from the telescope for other and more exact observations upon this spot. 
The sun was clear, gilding, as it sunk below the hills, a narrow streak of wane cloud, seen through the tree-tops beyond the Potomac.
The tail had appeared of great length for the first time the evening before; therefore we expected to find its length this evening greatly increased. It was a moment of intense interest when the first stars began to appear. The last rays of the sun still lingered on the horizon; and at this moment, just about the region of the upper crepusculum, a well-defined pencil of hairy light, was seen pointing towards the Sun. At 5h. 41m. sidereal time, the first measurement of length of the tail was taken it measured 41 deg. to the horizon. At 6h. 19m. it had become moat distinct. It was then 1 deg. 45m. broad, and 55 deg. long, not including the part below the horizon, which, supposing its terminus to be near the sun, could not, owing to the oblique angle which it made with the horizon, be less than 10 or 15 degrees more.  It now commenced gradually to fade away, and in a short time had entirely disappeared. Tho morning observations were diligently renewed, but nothing could be seen worthy of note.
